Aggregates consist of data already pre-counted together in a table.
So you don't have to run a computation on the data yourself.
For a large established company,
querying a table that has each row represented by
an individual sale would be monetarily expensive and time-consuming
query to run repeatedly for dashboarding in the scenario where
you'd want to plot out the trend of sales per month over the last 20 years.
Instead, they would most likely store the table in an aggregate where
the primary key would be the concatenation of product_id and sale_month.
In each row we have one field
representing the count of sales for that sale_month and product_id.
The downside of aggregates is that you're not able to conduct
analysis that we would require more granular data than what is already aggregated.
In this table we would not be able to analyze data on an individual sales level.
Data in a data warehouse is usually stored in a fact dimensional model.
The fact table contains the data that is being measured or counted.
Dimensional tables join with the fact table on
a common key and contains metadata about different slices in that fact table.
In this example, you start your analyses on the sales table and find out
more information about the associated products in orders of
the sale based on the representative dimensional tables